[MUSIC]
Today, we are going to make an LED blink.
So, we're gonna run,
on our Raspberry Pi here.
We're gonna run a program, blink program.
It's the program that
you saw in Lecture 2.1,
that blink program, slightly modified.
I will talk about the modifications
after we put this circuit together.
But right now let's just show and
talk about what we have and
the circuit we're gonna make.
We're just gonna blink
an led using the GPIO,
general purpose IO on the Raspberry Pi.
So here's my Raspberry Pi, the B+.
These are the GPIO pins right along here.
Right now, in my Raspberry Pi,
I have plugged in the HDMI and
also have the power plugged in.
You can see the red light.
I've also got my USB for
my wireless keyboard and mouse.
Also, I've got my Wi-Fi.
You don't need that right now,
but I have it plugged in.
Now, I've got my breadboard for making the
circuit, I've got an LED and a resistor.
I'm using a 1 k resistor, but
that's not really that important.
I mean it can be plus or minus but
I'm using 1 k, one kilohm.
I got a couple of wires.
Also, I've got this,
now this wire, this I'm using.
You'll notice this wire is three
wires put together really.
It's a servo cable, but
it's got three holes in there.
So this is female, right?
It's got three holes on each side.
And we need that because
the GPIO pins here are male.
They're leads that
are protruding straight out.
In order for us to connect to those
we need something with holes in it.
So, we need this,
this thing just is an adapter so
we can end up connecting to the board.
This is different than the Arduino.
If you remember the Arduino,
these general purpose IO were all female.
They were holes you could stick
these leads straight into them, but
it's a little different here.
Now let me wire together the circuit and
it's pretty easy.
This is actually exactly the same as what
we did with the Arduino when we blinked
its light.
So we take the LED, plug its anode and
cathode into two different rows.
That should be fine.
Then we'll take the resistor,
plug that in in series.
Oh, this is the same row here.
And plug the other lead into another row.
Okay.
Okay, so we got that wired together.
Now, let's plug in our cable
into our Raspberry Pi.
Now what we're gonna do is we're
gonna use pins six and eight, really.
Okay, let's count off these pins.
We're using the board numbering.
So they're numbered starting here.
One, two, three, four,
five, six, and so on.
Now, it turns out pin six is a ground and
pin eight is the pin that
we're going to use for GPIO.
So we need the ground cuz we need to
connect the ground to this circuit.
So we're going to take this, plug it into
the three pins, pins six, eight, and ten.
So pins, six is black,
red is eight, and white is ten.
We're going to use those.
We're gonna take the ground,
which I have connected to black,
and take that,
plug this into the black on this end.
And we're gonna plug that into our
circuit onto one end of this resistor.
There we go.
Oh, I got it in the wrong row.
Move it up one row.
There.
Okay, so we got that.
Now we're gonna use pin eight.
GPIO8, which is the red.
We're gonna connect that to
the other side of the LED.
We'll take that,
plug the yellow wire into that and
plug that into the outside of the LED,
the anode of the LED.
Okay so now it's wired up.
So now we're gonna run our program.
Now, to let you know about the program,
the slight modifications.
So the program in Lecture 2.1, the blink
program, it actually used pin 13.
We're using pin 8, so
I changed that to 8 instead of 13.
Also the sleep time,
in the program on Lecture 2.1,
we used a one-second sleep time.
We're using a 0.5-second sleep time so
it blinks a little faster.
Every half second it blinks.
So, that's it, that should be
all wired up and ready to go.
Now, what we're gonna do,
one thing you can't see is the keyboard.
So, I have a keyboard
connect to my Raspberry Pi.
And I am going to start
running the program.
Now the program, I call it Blink.py.
Dot py, it's a typical suffix for
Python programs.
So I have a program called Blink.py, and
it's basically what I told
you about in Lecture 2.1.
Now, I've typed that in and to execute it
I would only type python3 Blink.py, but
remember that since I'm using
GPIO I need to be in root,
I need to have root permission.
So I am going to put pseudo before that,
so I'm typing pseudo python3 Blink.py.
I'm just going to hit execute on it,
and hit Enter on there.
And it should be blinking.
Yes, it is.
Indeed, and there it is.
And that is how we blink
an LED with Raspberry Pi.
It's pretty straightforward to make.
[MUSIC]